[DOC-13927] Improve Array and Bitwise Functions (#564)
couchbaselabs/docs-devex: modules/n1ql/pages/n1ql-language-reference/arrayfun.adoc

{description}

[[fn-array-agg,ARRAY_AGG()]]
== ARRAY_AGG

> === Description

Reviewer: Let's consider getting rid of the **Description** heading for all functions. (Keep the description text of course.) It doesn't really add any value, and it triggers the Vale stacked headings rule.

Author: Yes, sounds good. 
It's done!

This function returns an array of the non-`MISSING` group values in the input [.var]`expr`, including `NULL` values.

=== Syntax
[subs=normal]
....
ARRAY_AGG(expr)
....

==== Arguments
expr:: [Required] The group of elements you wish to output in an array.

=== Return Values
An array of non-MISSING values.

> If the input [.var]`expr` is `MISSING` or if one of the elements in the array is `MISSING`, then it returns `MISSING`.

Reviewer: Get rid of `[.var]` throughout. It's left over from the original import from DITA to AsciiDoc, and we don't use it for anything.

Author: Done.

====

[[fn-array-append,ARRAY_APPEND()]]

> == ARRAY_APPEND

Reviewer: In the rest of the SQL++ documentation we have developed a sort of convention for referring to functions with brackets, even if we're not specifying any arguments. For example, see [Aggregate Functions](https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/guides/group-agg.html#aggregate-functions):

> To take multiple values from documents, perform calculations, and return a single value as the result, use an aggregate function, such as [AVG()](https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/aggregatefun.html#avg), [COUNT()](https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/aggregatefun.html#count), [MIN()](https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/aggregatefun.html#min), [MAX()](https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/aggregatefun.html#max), or [SUM()](https://docs.couchbase.com/server/current/n1ql/n1ql-language-reference/aggregatefun.html#sum).

That's why the reftext for this function is set to `ARRAY_APPEND()`.

Can you try include the empty brackets in the function name here and throughout, so we can see if that still looks too crowded in the right-hand navigation?

Author: Done. The preview site now reflects this change.

=== Description
This function takes an array [.var]`expr` and one or more [.var]`val` arguments to return a new array with the specified [.var]`val` argument(s) appended.

It requires a minimum of two arguments and returns an error if there are fewer.

=== Syntax

> [subs=normal]

Reviewer: You don't need `[subs=normal]` if there is no inline formatting in the literal block.

I'm still a bit conflicted about having two separate styles for syntax descriptions in the SQL++ docs, i.e. the EBNF style for keywords, and whatever this is for functions. I'll think about that some more.

Author: Removed `[subs=normal]`.

====

[[fn-array-contains,ARRAY_CONTAINS()]]
== ARRAY_CONTAINS

=== Description
This functions checks if the array [.var]`expr` contains the specified [.var]`val`.

=== Syntax
[subs=normal]
....
ARRAY_CONTAINS(expr, val)
....

==== Arguments
expr:: [Required] The array to be searched.

val:: [Required] The value that is being searched for.

=== Return Values
If either of the input arguments is `MISSING`, it returns `MISSING`.

> If either of the input argument types is `NULL`, it returns `NULL`.

Reviewer: Just wondering why you've left "types" here but removed it above?

```suggestion
If either of the input arguments is `NULL`, it returns `NULL`.
```

====

[[fn-array-length,ARRAY_LENGTH()]]
== ARRAY_LENGTH

> This function has a synonym xref:n1ql-language-reference/metafun.adoc#len[LEN()]

Reviewer: If we're getting rid of the **Description** heading, then in cases where there is a synonym we should probably put the synonym paragraph after the description.

Author: Done.
